>> Sreenivasan: ON THIS EDITION
FOR SUNDAY, AUGUST 7:
GOING INSIDE YEMEN AFTER A YEAR
AND A HALF OF CIVIL WAR.
THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION
DECLASSIFIES ITS "DRONE STRIKE
PLAYBOOK."
AND, AN EFFORT TO BRIDGE A
CULTURAL GAP IN SOUTH AFRICA
THROUGH BALLET.
NEXT, ON PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
>>FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS
AT LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK,
HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: GOOD EVENING AND
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
CLAIMS AND COUNTERCLAIMS IN
SYRIA TODAY IN THE BATTLE FOR
ALEPPO, WHERE 300,000 RESIDENTS
ARE TRAPPED.
BUT THERE'S LITTLE DOUBT THAT
FIGHTING FOR FULL CONTROL OF THE
DIVIDED CITY IS FEROCIOUS, AND
THAT REBEL FORCES HAVE MADE
GAINS.
VARIOUS REPORTS SAY REBELS HAVE
AT LEAST PARTIALLY BROKEN A
MONTH-LONG GOVERNMENT SIEGE AND
SEIZED A KEY MILITARY COMPLEX.
HEZBOLLAH FIGHTERS, ALLIED WITH
SYRIAN FORCES, CONCEDED THE
REBELS AND HAVE MADE ADVANCES.
GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS HAD NO
COMMENT ON ANY REBEL ADVANCE,
BUT SAID SYRIAN WARPLANES
ATTACKED REBEL TARGETS IN
ALEPPO.
>> Sreenivasan: TONIGHT, WE HAVE
A RARE REPORT FROM YEMEN, WHERE
ANOTHER CIVIL WAR HAS BEEN
RAGING FOR 16 MONTHS.
UNITED NATIONS-SPONSORED PEACE
TALKS AIMED AT RESOLVING THE WAR
WERE SUSPENDED YESTERDAY FOR A
MONTH.
THE U.N. ENVOY TO THE TALKS
CALLED ON THE TWO SIDES TO UNIFY
THEIR EFFORTS TO EASE THE
INCREASING BURDEN OF SUFFERING
ON THE YEMENI PEOPLE.
MORE THAN 8,000 PEOPLE HAVE BEEN
KILLED IN THE CONFLICT AND 370
THOUSAND CHILDREN ARE SUFFERING
FROM MALNUTRITION.
WE TURN NOW TO THIS EXCLUSIVE
GLIMPSE INSIDE YEMEN FROM
BRITAIN'S "UNREPORTED WORLD".
THERE ARE IMAGES IN THIS STORY
THAT SOME VIEWERS MAY FIND
UPSETTING.
KRISHNAN GURU MURTHY REPORTS.
>> THE CASUALTIES OF YEMEN'S WAR
GO WAY BEYOND THE BOMBS AND
BULLETS.
THE DISASTER HIDDEN FROM THE
WORLD'S EYES IS MALNUTRITION.
ONE AND A HALF MILLION CHILDREN
ARE SUFFERING AND THE PEDIATRIC
EMERGENCY UNITS ARE UNDER
TERRIBLE PRESSURE.
IS THE MAIN REASON THE CHILD
LOOKS LIKE THIS IS MALNUTRITION?
>> MALNUTRITION COMPLICATED BY
MALNUTRITION HAVE WEAKENED
IMMUNITIES SO THEY HAVE MANY
OTHER DISEASES.
THEY ARE GETTING SICK EASILY.
>> DO YOU HAVE ENOUGH GOOD AT
HOME FOR YOURSELVES?
>> EVERY DAY THAT'S IT JUST
FLOUR.
NO FRUITS, VEGETABLES OR MEATS?
>> HERE IS WHY THERE IS NOTHING.
ALL OF THESE ARE HERE?
TO THE SOUTH IS THE PORT.
90% OF YEMEN'S FOOD SUPPLY IS
IMPORTED.
THE VAST MAJORITY COMES THROUGH
HERE.
IT'S BEEN CRIPPLED BY AIR
STRIKES.
THERE IS AN ASTONISHING DEGREE
OF TARGETING.
THEY TOOK OUT THE DRIVER'S CAB
MAKING THESE COMPLETELY USELESS.
THE ONLY SHIPS THAT CAN DOCK
HERE NOW ARE THOSE WITH THEIR
OWN ONBOARD.
IT MAKES THE PROCESS SLOW.
FOOD WAREHOUSES ARE TARGETED AT
THE PORT TOO.
ONE OF THE BIGGEST COMPANIES
HERE HAS HAD THE DAIRY AND
COOKING FACILITIES TAKEN OUT.
IT'S THESE DEEP TARGETS THAT
LEAD TO SAUDI ARABIA FOR
BREAKING INTERNATIONAL
HUMANITARIAN LAW.
>> YOU SEE FOR YOURSELF.
NO SIGN --
>> SO WHILE FOOD PRICES RISE,
INCOMES PLUMMET.
THERE IS LITTLE WORK AND THE UN
SAYS 2.8 MILLION PEOPLE HAVE
BEEN DRIVEN FROM THEIR HOMES BY
THE BOMBING.
MANY ARE IN GRIM CAMPS LIKE
THESE IN THE MIDDLE OF THE
COUNTRY.
THEY'RE TOTALLY RELIANT ON
MEAGER AID SUPPLY.
THIS FAMILY GETS ONE ZACH OF
FLOUR EVERY -- SACK OF FLOWER
EVERY COUPLE OF MONTHS AND
OCCASIONAL LENTILS.
WE GO FOR A WALK, HE WANTS TO
SHOW ME SOMETHING.
IT'S THE GRAVEYARD.
HE SAYS MANY CHILDREN ARE BURIED
HERE, WHO HAVE DIED OF
MALNUTRITION.
>> Sreenivasan: THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION HAS DECLASSIFIED
A PREVIOUSLY SECRET DOCUMENT -
OFTEN REFERRED TO AS THE DRONE
STRIKE "PLAYBOOK" THAT OUTLINES
HOW DRONE TARGETS ARE CHOSEN AND
APPROVED.
THE RELEASE OF THE REDACTED
PRESIDENTIAL POLICY GUIDANCE--
OR PPG-- FOLLOWS A SERIES OF
COURT RULINGS STEMMING FROM A
LAWSUIT FILED BY THE ACLU.
THE PPG STATES IN PART, THAT
LETHAL ACTION AGAINST TERRORIST
TARGETS IN ITS WORDS, "SHALL BE
DISCRIMINATING AND PRECISE AS
REASONABLY POSSIBLE" AND "WILL
BE TAKEN ONLY WHEN THERE IS NEAR
CERTAINTY THAT THE INDIVIDUAL
BEING TARGETED IS, IN FACT, THE
LAWFUL TARGET AND LOCATED AT THE
PLACE WHERE THE ACTION WILL
OCCUR."
FOR MORE ON WHAT IS CONTAINED IN
THE 18 PAGE DOCUMENT, AND WHAT
IT REVEALS ABOUT UNITED STATES'
DRONE STRIKE PROGRAM, I AM
JOINED FROM WASHINGTON, D.C. BY
CHARLIE SAVAGE A WASHINGTON
CORRESPONDENT FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES AND AUTHOR OF THE
"POWER WARS: INSIDE OBAMA'S
POST-9/11 PRESIDENCY."
>> FIRST THE BIG IMPACT.
THIS IS SOMETHING WE KNEW
EXISTED FROM 2013.
WHAT'S THE DIFFERENCE NOW THAT
IT'S PUBLIC?
>> WELL IT CONFIRMS AND PROVIDES
NEW DETAILS ABOUT THE PROCESS BY
WHICH THE OBAMA AD MY STATION
HAS DEVELOPED FOR THE GOVERNMENT
TO MAKE THESE CONTESTED
DECISIONS TO KILL PEOPLE OUTSIDE
OF WAR ZONES WITH A DRONE OR A
MISSILE FROM A PILOTED AIRCRAFT
AS WELL.
IT SHOWS THE ADMINISTRATION
WHICH CAME IN, A LOOSEY GOOSY
PROCESS OF DECIDING WHEN TO
CARRY OUT COUNTER TERRORISM
STRIKES.
THE STRIKES SWELLED UNDER
OBAMA'S FIRST TERM.
IN HIS SECOND TERM HE THOUGHT TO
REGULARIZE THE PROCESS TO BRING
MORE ORDER TO IT.
IN THE PROCESS OF BUREAUCRACY IN
IT TO NORMALIZE IT AND HOW THE
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT DOES
BUSINESS.
NOW WE CAN SEE THE DOCUMENT
OURSELVES, WE SEE FOR OURSELVES
HOW TRUE THAT IS.
HOW REGULARIZED THIS PROCESS IS.
HOW MANY DIFFERENT LAYERS OF
BUREAUCRACY THERE ARE AND
PARTICIPANTS IN BOTH LEGAL AND
POLICY DELIBERATIONS ABOUT THE
FRAUGHT DECISIONS TO KILL
SOMEONE IN A PLACE SUCH AS
UNGOVERNED BADLANDS WHERE THE
UNITED STATES ARE IN A ORDINARY
WAR BUT NO REAL GOVERNMENT FOR
ARRESTING PEOPLE POSING A
TERRORIST THREAT.
>> AS THE DOCUMENT POINTS OUT
THERE ARE DIFFERENT LEVELS OF
COMMITTEE MEETINGS TO DETERMINE
WHO THE PERSON IS.
THE BIGGER QUESTION IS WHAT
ABOUT COLLATERAL DAMAGE AND
CASUALTY HE'S AND INNOCENT
CIVILIANS NEARBY.
WHAT DOES THIS POLICY DOCUMENT
LAY OUT IN THAT REGARD?
>> THIS LAYS DOWN A NEAR
STANDARD OF CERTAINTY OF NO
CIVILIAN BYSTANDER DEATHS.
SINCE THEN THERE HAVE BEEN
STRIKES.
FEWER STRIKES SINCE MAY OF 2013,
WHEN THIS CAME OUT.
THEY HAVE CONTINUED AND REPORTS
OF CIVILIAN CASUALTY DEATHS HAS
CONTINUED.
IT'S ONE THING TO SAY IT ON
PAPER AND ANOTHER THING TO
ACHIEVE IT PART OF THE
REVELATION OF THIS, IT'S TRUE IT
WAS KICKED OUT THROUGH THE
PRESSURE OF FREEDOM OF
INFORMATION ACT LAWSUIT BROUGHT
BY THE AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES
UNION.
IT HAS TO BE UNDERSTOOD IN THIS
LATE TWILIGHT E.R.A. OF THE
OBAMA ADMINISTRATION EFFORT TO
BE MORE TRANSPARENT ABOUT THE
OPERATIONS.
LAST MONTH, THE BEGINNING OF
JULY THEY PUT OUT THE OFFICIAL
UNDERSTANDING OF THEIR
STATISTICS, HOW MANY STRIKES
LIKE THIS THERE HAD BEEN.
HOW MANY COMBATANTS, TERRORISTS
THEY THOUGHT THEY HAD KILLED,
AND CIVILIANS KILLED AS A
RESULT.
THOSE NUMBERS ARE CONTROVERSIAL
LOW.
NOW OBAMA SAYS GOING FORWARD HIS
SUCCESSOR SHOULD PUT OUT NUMBERS
LIKE THAT EVERY YEAR.
>> CONSIDERING THESE ARE POLICY
GUIDELINES WHAT HAPPENS A FEW
MONTHS FROM NOW WITH A NEW
PRESIDENT IN OFFICE?
>> WELL, BECAUSE THIS IS NOT A
STATUTE, ANY FUTURE PRESIDENT
CAN RESCIND, REVOKE, MODIFY OR
IGNORE ANY EXECUTIVE ORDER,
EXECUTIVE ACTION, POLICY
GUIDANCE.
IN FACT THE GUIDANCE ITSELF
CONTEMPLATES THE RULES WHEN
THEY'RE NOT THE RULES.
THE PRESIDENT CAN WAVE THE
PROCESS AND STANDARDS IF HE OR
SHE WANTS TO IN A EXTRAORDINARY
CIRCUMSTANCE.
IT LISTS EXAMPLES.
IF THERE IS A MOVE WITHOUT TIME
TO GO THROUGH THE MEETINGS AND
DELIBERATIONS AND A REASON TO DO
IT THE PRESIDENT SAYS DO IT BUT
COME TO ME FOR PERMISSION TO
WAIVE THE STANDARDS.
>> OKAY.
CHARLIE SAVAGE JOINING US FROM
WASHINGTON AND THE NEW YORK
TIMES.
AUTHOR OF "POWER WARS" THANK YOU
FOR JOINING US.
>> THANK YOU FOR HAVING ME.
>> Sreenivasan: THE GREEN PARTY
WRAPPED UP ITS NATIONAL
CONVENTION IN HOUSTON LAST
NIGHT, CONFIRMING THAT JILL
STEIN WILL BE THEIR PRESIDENTIAL
NOMINEE THIS NOVEMBER. IN HER
SPEECH, STEIN THANKED THOSE
BERNIE SANDERS WHO HAD COME OVER
TO HER CAMPAIGN, WHILE
CHALLENGING THOSE WHO HAD NOT.
>> WHILE THE PARTIES THAT BE
WANT TO REASSURE US THAT
RESISTANCE IS FUTILE AND THAT WE
SHOULD JUST GO HOME AND LIE DOWN
ON THE RAILROAD TRACKS IN FRONT
OF CLIMATE CHANGE, IN FRONT OF
EXPANDING WARS, IN FRONT OF THE
INDUSTRIAL PRISON STATE AND MASS
INCARCERATION, IN FRONT OF
NUCLEAR WEAPONS, WHERE WE'RE NOW
ENGAGED IN A WHOLE NEW ARMS
NUCLEAR RACE.
THEY'RE TELLING US TO FORGET
ABOUT IT, TRUST THE POWERS THAT
BE THAT GOT US INTO THIS MESS,
WE SAY NO THANK YOU, WE ARE
STANDING UP, THIS IS OUR MOMENT.
>> Sreenivasan: THE REAL CLEAR
POLITICS NATIONAL AVERAGE OF
POLLS FOR THE GENERAL ELECTION
HAS STEIN IN FOURTH PLACE WITH
JUST FOUR PERCENT SUPPORT.
BUT THAT HASN'T PREVENTED HER
PARTY FROM TRYING TO HAVE AN
IMPACT.
JOINING US NOW FROM WASHINGTON,
D.C. IS N.P.R.'S JESSICA TAYLOR
WHO HAS BEEN COVERING THE GREEN
PARTY CONVENTION.
>> HOW MUCH OF THE GREEN PARTY
CONVENTION WAS ABOUT GREEN
PARTY.
HOW MUCH WAS ABOUT LURING BERNIE
SANDER SUPPORTERS?
>> FOR THE FIRST FEW DAYS I
HEARD BERNIE SANDERS MENTIONED
MORE THAN JOE STEIN.
THEY MADE PLEAS FOR BERNIE
SUPPORTERS TO JOIN THEM.
WHAT BERNIE SUPPORTS WE HAVE
BEEN FOR ALL ALONG.
NOT TAKING CORPORATE MONEY, FREE
COLLEGE, THE FOREIGN POLICY
APPROACHES.
THIS WAS REALLY SORT OF
DEFINITELY REACHING OUT TO THEM.
THEY SAW A LOT OF INCREASED
NUMBERS AT THIS PARTICULAR
CONVENTION.
ORGANIZERS TOLD ME THEY ACCEPTED
INITIALLY 250 PEOPLE.
OVER THE PAST MONTH IT DOUBLED
TO ALMOST 500 PEOPLE.
THEY ATTRIBUTE THAT TO SANDERS
DROPPING OUT, AND THEN THE
HUBBUB AT THE NDC WITH BACKERS
WALKING OUT AND PROTESTING IN
THE STREETS.
I SAW MANY SANDERS SUPPORTERS
THERE.
THEY SAY WE BELIEVE IN BERNIE
AND THE REVOLUTION HE WANTS
LIVES ON.
THEY FELT THEY COULD FIND A HOME
IN THE GREEN PARTY.
>> WHAT'S THE STRATEGY GOING
FORWARD?
KNOWING SHE'S ABOUT FOUR PERCENT
AND GOING TO MAYBE FIVE OR
SEVEN, TEN PERCENT BY ELECTION
DAY.
ARE THEY GOING OUT AND DOWNING
BALLOT RACES ?
>> THIS WAS A HEAVY EMPHASIS ON
DOWN BALLOT RACES.
THEY HAD SENATE AND LOCAL RACES.
THAT'S WHERE THE PARTY HAS HAD
SOME SUCCESS.
LIKE MAYORAL AND LOCAL COUNTY
BOARD RACES.
THEY HAVEN'T HAD MAJOR SUCCESSES
FEDERALLY OR STATE WIDE.
I THINK THEY HOPE IF THEY GET
THE SANDER SUPPORTERS TO
MOBILIZE MAYBE NOT NATIONALLY
BUT LOCALLY THAT IT COULD HAVE A
IMPACT.
THERE WAS A POLL HAVING HER AT
6 PERCENT.
SHE'S STILL TRAILING
LIBERTARIAN, GARY JOHNSON.
HE REGISTERS UP TO 10 PERCENT IN
SOME POLLS.
I ASKED HER YESTERDAY WHEN WE
TALKED.
SHE SAID WE HAVEN'T GOTTEN THE
EXPOSURE OF THE OTHER CANDIDATES
EVEN TO A EXTENT OF GARY
JOHNSON.
SHE SAID IF PEOPLE LEARN MORE
ABOUT OUR MESSAGE THEY WILL COME
TO US.
THAT'S THEIR HOPE.
>> WHAT ARE THE CORE PLATFORM
ISSUES THEY AGREE ON.
>> ALL MANNERS OF PROGRESSIVISM.
A LOT IS ANTI-INTERVENTIONIST
FOREIGN POLICY, ENVIRONMENTALIST
PLATFORM, SOCIAL, ECONOMIC AND
EQUALITY.
YOU HEARD ALL OF THIS, THINK
THERE WAS A DISCORD THERE AND
OVER THE FUTURE OF THE PARTY.
LARGELY YOU HAVE SOME DIVERSITY
THEY'RE BRINGING IN SOMEWHERE
THAT WAS CONFLICT TOO.
ONE CANDIDATE OPPOSING DR. STEIN
FOR THE NOMINATION.
SHE ROSE UP AND SAID SHE
BELIEVES THE PARTY NEEDS TO BE
MORE DIVERSE AND NOT REPRESENTED
BY A WHITE WOMAN.
THAT SHE WAS A BLACK MUSLIM
WOMAN THAT WOULD REPRESENT
BETTER.
>> THANK YOU, JESSICA TAILOR.
>> Sreenivasan: THE RESULTS FROM
SOUTH AFRICA YESTERDAY CONFIRMED
THAT THE POWERFUL AFRICAN
NATIONAL CONGRESS, THE PARTY OF
NELSON MANDELA, SUFFERED ITS
WORST SHOWING IN AN ELECTION
SINCE 1994.
THE A.N.C. LOST GROUND TO THE
DEMOCRATIC ALLIANCE, A PARTY
LONG ASSOCIATED WITH THE WHITE
MIDDLE CLASS THAT ITSELF HAS A
BLACK LEADER NOW.
MILLIONS OF BLACK SOUTH AFRICAN
VOTERS SEEM LESS CONCERNED ABOUT
RACE AND MORE CONCERNED ABOUT
ISSUES LIKE UNEMPLOYMENT AND
CORRUPTION.
THE CONTINUING CHANGE IN SOUTH
AFRICA IS ALSO SHOWING UP IN
SMALLER WAYS TOO.
BALLET, AN ARTFORM PREVIOUSLY
RESERVED FOR THE WHITE MINORITY,
IS COMING TO SOWETO.
NEWSHOUR SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT
MARTIN SEEMUNGAL REPORTS.
>> Reporter: SOWETO-- THE
SPRAWLING BLACK TOWNSHIP IN
SOUTH AFRICA'S BIGGEST CITY,
JOHANNESBURG-- IS SYNONYMOUS
WITH THE STRUGGLE AGAINST
APARTHEID.
TWO DECADES AFTER THE REGIME OF
RACIAL SEPARATION ENDED, MANY
CULTURAL DIVIDES REMAIN.
TRADITIONALLY, BALLET HERE WAS
FOR THE WHITE AND WEALTHY.
BLACK SOUTH AFRICANS WERE
EXCLUDED, LEAVING A LEGACY OF
DISINTEREST.
BALLET TEACHER MULI MOKGELE IS
AMONG THOSE TRYING TO CHANGE
THAT.
>> GROWING UP, WE KNEW BALLET AS
BEING A WHITE SPORT, SO IT'S
VERY MUCH NEW TO US.
BUT I KNOW THAT IN TIME IT WILL
GET BETTER.
>> Reporter: DIRK BADENHORST
JUDGES BALLET INTERNATIONALLY
AND ORGANIZES BALLET
COMPETITIONS IN SOUTH AFRICA.
HE'S PUSHING TO BRING MORE
BALLET TEACHERS TO SOWETO.
>> ARE THE CONDITIONS IDEAL TO
DO WHAT WE ARE DOING?
NO.
IS IT THE PERFECT WAY OF DOING
IT?
NO.
BUT IF WE DON'T START SOMEWHERE,
WE'RE NEVER GOING TO HAVE IT.
>> Reporter: ONE OF HIS RECRUITS
IS MARIA DE LOS ANGELAS
QUINTANILLA-- KNOWN
AFFECTIONATELY AS MISS MARIA--
AN EXPERIENCED BALLET INSTRUCTOR
FROM CUBA.
SHE ARRIVED IN SOUTH AFRICA A
FEW MONTHS AGO AND HAS ALREADY
DEVELOPED A STRONG BOND WITH HER
STUDENTS.
I HAVE ALWAYS LOVED CHILDREN,
SHE SAYS, BUT GOD DIDN'T GIVE ME
THE CHANCE TO HAVE MY OWN.
THE TALENT IS ONE THING.
THE PHYSICAL ABILITY IS
SOMETHING ELSE, SHE SAYS.
WE NEED TO GIVE THE CHILDREN
TIME TO DEVELOP THE SKILLS AS
WELL AS TO DEMONSTRATE THEY HAVE
REAL TALENT.
>> Reporter: THE TRUTH IS BALLET
HAS NEVER BEEN BIG IN THE BLACK
TOWNSHIPS.
THERE IS ZERO HISTORY HERE-THERE
WERE NEVER ANY QUALIFIED
TEACHERS FOR ONE THING, BUT NOW
THERE ARE.
THESE ARE THE FIRST.
THE CLASSES COST $10 A MONTH,
BUT IF A FAMILY CAN'T AFFORD IT,
THE PROGRAM DOESN'T CHARGE.
THOBA KARL HALLA IS LEARNING TO
BECOME ONE OF THE INSTRUCTORS.
>> IT IS AN OPPORTUNITY THAT HAS
BEEN AVAILABLE FOR THE MINORITY
AND THE FEW THAT CAN ACTUALLY
AFFORD THAT, BUT THROUGH THESE
CLASSES AND THIS PROGRAM WE
WOULD BE ABLE TO BE DISCIPLES
AND SPREAD IT AND MAKE IT MUCH
WIDER.
>> Reporter: GUSTIN MAKGELEDISA
IS A PROFESSIONAL DANCER AND
CHOREOGRAPHER.
>> WE NEED TO BREAK AWAY FROM
THIS THING OF SAYING, ' OH THIS
IS A WHITE FORM OF DANCE,' OR'
THIS IS A BLACK FORM OF DANCE.'
PEOPLE NEED TO START GETTING
ENGAGED IN OTHER THINGS, SO WE
NEED TO TRAIN THE KIDS AT A VERY
YOUNG AGE, AND THAT'S HOW WE
SPOT THE TALENT.
>> Reporter: BORN DURING THE
LAST YEARS OF APARTHEID, JOHN
TSUNKE DIDN'T HAVE THE
OPPORTUNITY TO TAKE BALLET
LESSONS UNTIL HE WAS 19, BUT HE
IS ONE OF THE RARE BLACK SOUTH
AFRICANS WHO WENT ON TO PERFORM
WITH THE JOHANNESBURG BALLET.
NOW 28, HE'S EXCITED TO BE
TEACHING.
>> TO GIVE THEM WHAT I DIDN'T
HAVE AND OPPORTUNITIES TO CHOOSE
TO TRAIN THEM.
SOMETHING THAT I NEVER HAD
CHANCES TO DO AND BE ABLE TO DO
THAT AND HAVE THE MOST BASIC
THING, A FOUNDATION.
>> Reporter: CONNIE SEPTEMBER IS
A FORMER CABINET MINISTER AND
MEMBER OF PARLIAMENT WITH THE
GOVERNING AFRICAN NATIONAL
CONGRESS. SHE HAS PUSHED THE ANC
TO EMBRACE BALLET AND RECOGNIZE
ITS POTENTIAL.
>> WHERE THE KIDS ARE BEING
TRAINED BY THOSE THAT ARE VERY
FAMILIAR TO THEM, THAT CAN SPEAK
THE LANGUAGE AND UNDERSTAND THEM
AND SO ON IT IS QUITE IMPORTANT.
IF WE GET THIS THING RIGHT, IT
WILL BE AN ABSOLUTE EXPLOSION IN
MANY OF OUR TOWNSHIPS.
>> Reporter: THE CLASSES ARE
ATTRACTING CHILDREN LIKE 8 YEAR
OLD PHELETSO KOMANE.
THIS IS THE HOUSE IN SOWETO
WHERE SHE LIVES WITH HER PARENTS
AND TWO BROTHERS.
HER FATHER IS UNEMPLOYED, AND
HER MOTHER WORKS AT A
SUPERMARKET EARNING $260 A
MONTH.
>> NO, I DON'T HAVE THE MONEY TO
PAY MORE MONEY.
I THINK IT'S EXPENSIVE AT THE
REAL SCHOOL.
>> Reporter: BALLET IS WELL
ESTABLISHED IN THE FORMER"
WHITES ONLY" AREAS OF
JOHANNESBURG-- STILL
PREDOMINANTLY WHITE-- BUT
ATTITUDES TOWARD BLACK
PARTICIPATION IN BALLET HAVE
CHANGED.
NATASHA IRELAND IS FORMER
BALLERINA WHO TEACHES BALLET.
>> YOU KNOW THEY HAVE A VERY
DIFFICULT AND VERY HARD LIFE
WHICH WE UNFORTUNATELY DON'T
UNDERSTAND OR REALIZE BECAUSE WE
HAVEN'T LIVED THROUGH IT.
>> Reporter: IRELAND'S STUDIOS
ARE STATE OF THE ART, AND
LESSONS HERE COST TEN TIMES
HIGHER THAN IN SOWETO, BUT SHE
BELIEVES BRINGING BALLET TO THE
TOWNSHIPS IS LONG OVERDUE.
>> THERE ARE A LOT OF KIDS WITH
A LOT OF ABILITY AND WITH THE
CORRECT TRAINING AND THE CORRECT
EXPOSURE AND THE CORRECT
NURTURING IN A LOVING
ENVIRONMENT, I THINK WE COULD
PRODUCE EXCELLENT DANCERS OF
COLOR.
I THINK IT'S A FANTASTIC
OPPORTUNITY.
>> Reporter: MOST OF HER
STUDENTS HAVE TRAINED SINCE THEY
WERE FIVE YEARS OLD.
SOME ALREADY PERFORM AT THE
HIGHEST LEVELS, LIKE 16 YEAR OLD
VERONICA LOUW.
>> THE ART IS ONE WAY TO LIKE
BRING EVERYONE TOGETHER,
ESPECIALLY FOR WHAT THIS COUNTRY
HAS BEEN THROUGH AND NOW THAT WE
ARE FINALLY ON AN EQUAL PAR WHY
NOT SHARE IT WITH EVERYTHING.
>> Reporter: DIRK BADENHORST
SAYS THE CHILDREN OF SOWETO ARE
LEARNING AN ART FORM AND
BUILDING CONFIDENCE.
>> IT'S SO INCREDIBLE TO SEE
THESE YOUNG KIDS COMING FROM A
SHACK, WANTING TO BE A
BALLERINA.
>> Reporter: ATTA IS ONE OF
THOSE LITTLE GIRLS.
THE DAUGHTER OF PHUMLA
MAKAPALEA.
>> MY MOM SAID I CAN DANCE
BALLET.
>> BECAUSE BALLET... IT'S
BEAUTIFUL, AND I LIKE IT.
>> THEY HAVE DREAMS IN THEIR
EYES, BECAUSE THEY PUT ON A
COSTUME AND THEY BECOME A PRINCE
OR A PRINCESS OR A FAIRY, AND
IT'S THAT SKILL THAT TRANSFERS
INTO THEIR DAILY LIFE.
THAT ABILITY TO TRANSCEND THEIR
PHYSICAL LOCATION INTO BECOMING
ANYTHING THEY WANT.
>> READ ABOUT THE DEAD POET
SOCIETY.
NEW MAGAZINE BY WRITERS WITH
DISABILITIES RELEASING THEIR
FIRST ISSUE THIS WEEK AT
PBS.ORG/NEWSHOUR.
>> THIS IS PBS NEWS HOUR WEEKEND
SUNDAY.
>> Sreenivasan: THE
INTERNATIONAL PARALYMPIC
COMMITTEE TODAY BANNED THE
ENTIRE RUSSIAN TEAM FROM
PARTICIPATING IN NEXT MONTH'S
PARALYMPIC GAMES IN RIO.
THE I.P.C. SAID RUSSIAN PARA-
ATHLETES WERE ALSO IMPLICATED IN
A PERVASIVE STATE-SPONSORED
DOPING AND COVER-UP SCANDAL.
THE RUSSIAN PARALYMPIC COMMITTEE
IS EXPECTED TO APPEAL THE
DECISION TO THE COURT OF
ARBITRATION FOR SPORT.
AN IRANIAN OFFICIAL CONFIRMED
TODAY THAT THE COUNTRY HAS
EXECUTED A NUCLEAR SCIENTIST WHO
WAS CONVICTED OF SPYING AND
PROVIDING WHAT WAS CALLED "VITAL
INFORMATION" ON IRAN'S NUCLEAR
PROGRAM TO THE UNITED STATES.
SHAHRAM AMIRI, WHO WORKED FOR
IRAN'S ATOMIC ENERGY
ORGANIZATION, DISAPPEARED IN
2009.
HE SURFACED A YEAR LATER IN THE
U.S., CLAIMING THAT HE HAD BEEN
KIDNAPPED AND TORTURED BY THE
C.I.A. AND OFFERED BRIBES.
THE U.S. SAID AMIRI HAD
VOLUNTARILY DEFECTED AND
PROVIDED WHAT A U.S. OFFICIAL
CALLED "USEFUL INFORMATION."
AMIRI RECEIVED A HERO'S WELCOME
WHEN HE RETURNED TO IRAN IN 2010
BUT WAS SOON ARRESTED AND
SENTENCED TO PRISON.
IN THAILAND TODAY, MORE THAN 60%
OF VOTERS OVERWHELMINGLY
APPROVED A CONTROVERSIAL NEW
CONSTITUTION THAT IS EXPECTED TO
GUARANTEE A PROMINENT POLITICAL
ROLE BY THE MILITARY.
THE NEW CONSTITUTION WAS DRAFTED
BY A COMMISSION HAND-PICKED BY
THE THAI MILITARY, WHICH SEIZED
POWER IN A COUP BACK IN 2014.
OPPONENTS CLAIM THE DOCUMENT
WILL ALLOW THE MILITARY TO
CONTROL PUBLIC LIFE UNDER THE
FACADE OF DEMOCRACY.
THE PHILIPPINES' NEW PRESIDENT
RODRIGO DUTERTE HAS VOWED TO
CONTINUE HIS CRACKDOWN ON THE
DRUG TRADE.
IN A TELEVISED ADDRESS TODAY,
DUTERTE NAMED MORE THAN 150
GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS, INCLUDING
JUDGES, MEMBERS OF CONGRESS AND
MILITARY OFFICERS AND ACCUSED
THEM OF HAVING DRUG LINKS.
MORE THAN 4,000 PEOPLE HAVE BEEN
ARRESTED AND 400 HUNDRED HAVE
BEEN KILLED BY THE POLICE AND
VIGILANTES SINCE DUTERTE TOOK
OFFICE IN JUNE.
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS REPORTED
NEARLY 600,000 PEOPLE HAVE
SURRENDERED TO AUTHORITIES.
>> FINALLY ONE OF THE MOST
PRODUCTIVE BUT CONTROVERSIAL
CAREERS IN BASEBALL IS WINDING
DOWN.
ALEX RODRIGUEZ WILL PLAY HIS
FINAL GAME ON FRIDAY, ALMOST
CERTAINLY ENDING A CAREER THAT
BEGAN 22 YEARS AGO.
HE WAS SUSPENDED FOR THE ENTIRE
2014 SEASON FOR USING
PERFORMANCE ENHANCING DRUGS.
HE IS FOURTH ALL TIME FOR HOME
RUNS.
HOW BUFFALO IS TACKLING THE
PSYCHOLOGICAL NEEDS FOR THOSE
COMING FROM SYRIA.
THAT'S IT FOR THIS EDITION OF
NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN.
HAVE A GOOD NIGHT.